Now that we see that
it works let's go back
to the question that I started
to ask you earlier which was.
What's the performance implication
the difference that we've now made what's
the implication of
the difference in performance?
It is still the case that we
are recursing against the input word,
and so the length of the input word,
the longer the input word,
the more levels of call stack recursion,
we're going to end up doing.
So in both solutions option one and now
option two we're gonna end up recursing
over the same number of input characters.
But for
each one of those input characters,
notice what we're now doing
differently instead of
effectively searching the entire
elements list every time.
We are searching the small subset of
candidates that we already know to be
possible to be in it,
and we're ignoring all the other ones
that could not possibly have been in it.
Remember in the previous solution we
had a four of loop over elements.
So, if we took N to be the size of
the input characters that you type in,
which is fixed somewhere between six and
12, or whatever somebody wants to type.
If we take that as N, and
we take the number of things that
we need to look at worst case for
each one of those characters,
and we call that M.
The big O of this solution
is O of N times M and
the big O of the previous
solution is O of N times M.
So, in a theoretical sense,
I think we could say that these two
have the same theoretical performance.
But in a practical performance sense,
we know that the candidates
list is significantly
shorter than the Elements list.
Perhaps even an order
of magnitude shorter.
So there's another takeaway that I want
you to get from this workshop which is,
it is important to be able
to evaluate your solutions.
For the theoretical characteristics,
it is also important to be
pragmatic about things.
For example, you could say theoretically,
that big O of one and
big O of 2000, in theoretical
terms are equal one unit of work and
2000 units of work.
Are equal in the theoretical sense because
those never grow no matter how big your
data set or input is, you either always
do one operation or you always do 2000.
And so in the theoretical sense,
we consider both of those to be constant
time because they don't
grow with the inputs.
But I think you and I both know that
doing 2000 operations versus doing
one operation is actually going to be
measurably different in performance.
Even if it's not theoretically
different in performance,
it's measurably different in performance.
So algorithmists definitely play
in this space of theory and
they validate and design algorithms
based upon the theoretical things.
We cannot forget the practical
implementations,
if I run an algorithm that can do O of N,
and I run another algorithm
that can do O of 100N,
theoretically those
are the same algorithm.
I'm gonna choose the O of N, because it's
100 times more efficient than the O of N.
All right, you follow the difference
between we're talking about?
You do want to first consider
the theoretical space but
don't ignore the practical consideration.
In this particular case, in theory,
these are the same big O as far
as I can tell but in practice,
there would be a difference, would it
be a big measurable seconds delay?
Absolutely not, we are talking
about maybe a dozen miliseconds,
maybe probably not even that much right,
so
not we're not talking
about a giant difference.
But like we said, paper cuts add up so
we don't want to do the extra
work if it's unnecessary.
Any questions about this first exercise
hopefully it got your feet wet
with working through thinking
about the algorithms and
then translating them to code yes?
>> Several people asking for
a quick recap.
>> Fundamentally, the algorithmic
approaches were very similar.
Both algorithmic approaches,
option one and
option two,
recursed over the input strings.
The big difference between option one and
option two, is that in option one,
for each candidate will say
each chunk of the input string,
we matched it against
the entire Elements list.
Which was the most naive way of doing
it It's saying if I look at this
one character,
go see if I can find it there and
we didn't even have an index
in place by the way.
Don't forget the whole index thing
to make it an O of one lookup, so
we didn't even have an index.
We just looked it up in the most naive,
dumb way possible.
In the second approach, we said, we don't
need to look at all the elements for
each one of these characters.
We can actually do a pre-pass
through the inputs and
collect any of the possible
candidates that ever could match.
And only if we found those, those are the
ones to look at each time we recurse down.
So we have the same theoretical big O,
but in practice,
we're doing significantly less work for
each of the input characters.
And the penalty that we
paid was one loop through.
You'll notice that the find
candidates function has has an O of N
complexity to it.
So what we end up with and
this is a subtle but
important point is we end up with
a big O (n+) rather than N times.
We had to pay the N penalty N being
the size of the number of elements
in the periodic table, which you could
argue that that's not even an N.
They're not coming up with new periodic
table elements, it's pretty fixed.
So you could argue that this is
O of 118 rather than O of N, but
we did have to pay 118 iterations to
construct our indexes effectively.
We're constructing
effectively a one-letter and
two-letter symbol indexes into this array,
but only the ones that we care about.
So it's a partial index, that's
effectively what candidates is doing.
So, we had to pay an O of 118, to do that,
but think about potentially
the longer the word that you write,
the more times there's a call
stack recursion happening.
All of that saved work of having to go
back over the Elements list over and
over and over again.
Many 100s or 1000s of operations saved and
doing that, there was another question?
>> How did they compare in
terms of space complexity.
>> So in memory, remember there's always
a trade off between the performance,
the raw time performance versus
the memory usage performance.
We still have the main data structure
elements the same between the two options.
That would be the big usage of
memory that we've talked about and
that's equal between the two.
Option two did construct a little bit more
memory usage, in that we created this
symbols object which had properties that
were references to those other objects.
So we had an object with
118 properties on it, and
then we created two arrays,
one letter symbols and two letter symbols.
Total of which probably has on
average I'm just gonna guess I haven't
actually calculated it but
I'm gonna guess on average for
these words there's
probably 10 candidates max.
So we're creating an array
with 10 elements and
an object with 180 team properties
that just have references on them,
that's a tiny bit more memory,
but it is more memory.
Notably, from the algorithmist
perspective, that's still O of 1 memory.
None of our memory grew
N proportionally or
more based upon the input size.
Slightly more candidate growth,
but it's definitely not linear,
I don't even know how to what it would be,
but it would be sublinear,
it would be logarithmic approaching fixed.
Final check in here give me
some thumbs up thumbs down,
how do you feel about this exercise?
How do you feel about having got your
feet wet using some recursion and
some algorithmic thinking and
translating into the code?
We feel like the approach
made rough sense or
do we feel like there's still
some difficult parts for us?
Okay I see a few good thumbs and
a few wavering thumbs so
that's all right I think somebody asked
me right before we started the workshop.
And I'll say for the benefit of
those watching the recording,
you're being presented
a highly compressed zip file.
This information is something that many
people spend weeks, months years learning.
And you're watching it over
the course of eight or 10 hours or
whatever it ends up being
tightly compressed.
So if you have that feeling
of I kind of get it but
I really don't fully get it yet.
You're in exactly the right spot,
you're in exactly the right spot so
don't feel bad it will take a while
to re-review I'll take this
moment to remind folks of what I always
say in my workshops, take more time.
Go back over this,
try it again from scratch, in fact,
I'll give you this suggestion.
Right now, wherever you are and whatever
time it is that you're watching this,
open up your calendar and
pick a date a week or two in advance.
And mark yourself off a couple of
hours of review time for this, and
then do another one a couple
of weeks after that.
If you wait until those days come,
I promise you your calendar will fill up,
but if you reserve it now and
reserve time out in the future now, so
that you have an opportunity to come back.
And try this stuff at a later time, you
will thank yourself because it does take
time for our brains to unpack and review
and it is important for us to go back.
We didn't have many slides for
this segment but go back over what we've
gone over so far and
retry the code from scratch from yourself.
Your future self will
thank your current self